Trivy-
Trivy is a security scanner tool.

It checks for vulnerabilities (security issues) and misconfigurations in:
Docker images
Project files (code, dependencies)
Kubernetes manifests / Terraform files
Filesystem / project directories
Git repositories
Infrastructure as Code (IaC) files – Terraform, Kubernetes YAML, etc.
Dependencies in your application (e.g. package-lock.json, requirements.txt)

Why Trivy is used
To find security problems early (before deploying to production).
To prevent deploying vulnerable images or code.
To automate security scanning as part of CI/CD pipeline.

How Trivy is used in GitHub Actions:
You can add Trivy as a step in your GitHub Actions workflow.
It will scan your code or image, and If it finds HIGH or CRITICAL vulnerabilities, the pipeline fails (exit-code: 1).
Example: Scan a Docker image
name: Trivy Scan

on: [push]

jobs:
  scan:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Build Docker image
        run: docker build -t my-app:latest .

      - name: Run Trivy scan
        uses: aquasecurity/trivy-action@master
        with:
          image-ref: 'my-app:latest'
          severity: 'CRITICAL,HIGH'
          exit-code: '1'
🔹 This will:
Build your Docker image
Scan it using Trivy
Stop the build if critical/high issues are found


Example: Scan code files (filesystem)
- name: Run Trivy on project files
  uses: aquasecurity/trivy-action@master
  with:
    scan-type: 'fs'
    severity: 'CRITICAL,HIGH'
    exit-code: '1'

This will:
Scan all your project files and dependencies
Fail if serious vulnerabilities are found

In Linux:
Scan a Docker Image-
Scan the nginx:latest image
*trivy image nginx:latest

This will:
Pull the image (if not present)
Scan it for known vulnerabilities (CVEs)
Show severity levels (LOW, MEDIUM, HIGH, CRITICAL)

Scan only High and Critical issues-
*trivy image --severity HIGH,CRITICAL nginx:latest

*Trivy can scan Binaries
What is a binary?
When you compile code (like C, Go, or Java), it becomes a single executable file
This file is called a binary (for example: myapp, mytool, program.exe)
Inside it, there are many libraries and packages that the app uses

The Problem
You don’t know which libraries are inside that binary
Some of those libraries might have security issues (vulnerabilities)
But you can’t see them directly because it’s all bundled together

What Trivy does
Trivy opens that binary
Finds which libraries are inside
Checks if those libraries have known security problems (CVEs)
Shows you the list of vulnerabilities
📌 This is called binary scanning.

Example:
You have a file called myapp:
trivy fs ./myapp

Trivy will:
Scan myapp
Detect libraries inside
Report if any have security issues
